Reading

What is a site-to-site VPN?
A site-to-site virtual private network (VPN) refers to a connection set up between multiple networks.

What is TCP/IP and what is it used for?
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP). 
TCP/IP outlines how data is organized according to packets, given addresses, transmitted, and received across different computers on the internet.

What are some popular reasons for using a VPN?
The modern iteration of a VPN gained popularity because of people wanting to mask their IP addresses and surf the internet more safely. 
A hidden IP address gives you the freedom to download torrents without revealing who you are. You can also gain access to geo-blocked content, regardless of your location. 
In addition, on a public network, you have to deal with a constant barrage of cyberattacks, but with a VPN, you can enjoy a more secure, encrypted connection.
These attributes made private VPNs a top choice among individual users.

Explain the difference between the three types of VPNs.

Remote Access VPNs
A remote access VPN refers to a temporary connection set up between two or more users and a central location. In most cases, a remote access VPN is used to give each location access to a data center. 
In some situations, a connection that makes use of Internet Protocol security (IPsec) is sufficient. However, it is also common for an organization to utilize a VPN, which avails them of the security positioned at the gateways at each end of the VPN.

Intranet-based Site-to-Site
An intranet-based site-to-site VPN connects more than one local-area network (LAN) to form a wide-area network (WAN). A company may also use this kind of setup to incorporate software-defined WAN (SD-WAN). 
Intranet-based site-to-site VPNs are useful tools for combining resources housed in disparate offices securely, as if they were all in the same physical location.

Extranet-based Site-to-Site
Extranet-based site-to-site VPNs are often used by two or more different companies that want to share certain resources but keep others private. 
With an extranet-based site-to-site VPN, each entity connects to the VPN and chooses what they want to make available to the other companies. 
In this way, they can collaborate and share without exposing proprietary data.
