1.What is a port? Describe it with an analogy that would help a family member understand.
A port scanner is a computer program that checks network ports for one of three possible statuses – open, closed, or filtered.

 -Imagine a port as a docking station or a harbor for ships. Just like a harbor provides a place for ships to stop, unload cargo, and pick up new items, 
 a computer port is a place where you can connect different devices, like a USB drive or a printer, to your computer. 
 It's like the port becomes a meeting point where information can be exchanged between your computer and these devices, much like a harbor where goods are exchanged between ships and the shore.

2.What does a port scanner send to a port to check the current status?
A port scanner sends a network request to connect to a specific TCP or UDP port on a computer and records the response.


3.When a port scanner sends a request to connect, what are the three possible responses? Describe them.
Open, Accepted: The computer responds and asks if there is anything it can do for you.
Closed, Not Listening: The computer responds that “This port is currently in use and unavailable at this time.”
Filtered, Dropped, Blocked: The computer doesn’t even bother to respond.


4.What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
TCP and UDP are the two most common protocols in use for Internet Protocol (IP) networks. 
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a nice orderly transaction protocol: TCP sends each packet in order, complete with error checking, verification, and a 3-way handshake to confirm each packet is successful.

UDP doesn’t have any error checking but tends to be faster. Live streaming and online video games often use UDP for this reason. 
UDP is a connectionless protocol, so programs that use UDP just send the data – and if you miss a packet, you will never get it again.


5.List and describe the ports used for the following:
Telnet-The telecommunication network protocol, communicates over TCP port 23
SSH-Secure Shell. This communicates over TCP port 22
DNS-Domain Name System, are communicating over the UDP protocol using port 53. 
SMTP-Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, uses TCP port 25
HTTP-HTTP primarily uses port 80. This port is the default for unencrypted web traffic. However, when HTTPS, the secure version of HTTP, is used, it operates over port 443.
HTTPS-Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure, communicating over TCP port 443 
RDP-Remote Desktop Protocol,  to provide that shared desktop view, and it commonly communicates using TCP port 3389.
Ping- Ping uses the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) which operates at the network layer of the OSI model. 
ICMP doesn't rely on ports like TCP or UDP do. However, ICMP messages are often used in conjunction with the Internet Protocol (IP) and don't have dedicated port numbers like other protocols.

Resources:
ChatGPt
https://www.varonis.com/blog/port-scanning-techniques
https://www.professormesser.com/network-plus/n10-008/n10-008-video/common-ports-n10-008/

